h1. Aitsu_Util Classes

Aitsu_Util classes provide widely used functions as static methods.

* *"Aitsu_Util_Array":Array.php*: Complex array manipulations.
* "Aitsu_Util_Date":Date.php: Date formatting and calculations.
* "Aitsu_Util_Dir":Dir.php: File system scan and recursive removement of directories.
* "Aitsu_Util_Javascript":Javascript.php: Dynamic linking of Javascript references and code.
* "Aitsu_Util_Request":Request.php: Returns server variables taking into account apache request headers.
* "Aitsu_Util_String":String.php: Complex string manipulations.
* "Aitsu_Util_Type":Type.php: Type conversions.
* "Aitsu_Util_Uuid":Uuid.php: Generates UUIDs.
* "Aitsu_Util_Validator":Validator.php: Provides often used validations.

h2. Aitsu_Util_Array

Provides complex array manipulations. Inline documentation is found in the "class":Array.php.

h3. shiftAndMix

Reorders, for example, ...

bc. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T

...when using 5 as the columns parameter to

bc. A E I M Q B F J N R C G K O S D H L P T

If you output the result in 5 columns, you will get something like...

bc. A E I M Q
B F J N R
C G K O S
D H L P T

h2. Aitsu_Util_Date

Provides date manipulations and reformatting methods. Inline documentation is found in the "class":Date.php.

h2. Aitsu_Util_Dir

The "class":Dir.php provides method to recusively scan the file system and to remove directories.

h2. Aitsu_Util_Validator

Provides often used validations such as email validation. Inline documentation is found in the "class":Validator.php.